I contemplate the talking stick, breathe with it.
Ancestors connect, bent willow bows weave seductions,
fingers fly to face and tap the paridians.
Even though I carry grief, guilt, shame, my deep malignant blue-shaped pain,
I can heal.
Step into the dance.
Feet root to earth, spirit soars celestial, wright moonbeams learn magic,
fuel a metaconceptual mind flake within.
Sculpt star shine with harmony, mosh with the weather by fire's fierce light.
Begin.
The thing about this poem is I haven't read it before, so normally my work is
memorised, they're not memorised. I'm a performance poet, look at YouTube,
but normally work on the Comedy Circuit and Burlesque and spoken word a bit,
but these are not really the most performancey things either.
See, I'm making a lot of excuses. Someone told me never apologise.
This is called Queen Mab.
My real name is Plain, a sticker slapped on me as if on a lemon,
something produced by my mother and given to my father a present,
my birth name a token of her love for him, not for me.
My real name is Hisnay, made female, you see, and it was a name that never quite
fitted like that pleated skirt, like that stiff school shirt, a thing put upon me,
uncomfy and cosy, and all of the time, like the clothes they chose, I longed to pull it off.
But like a sticker, one day it came loose, leaving me nameless, a nameless, a nothing,
a newborn, a baby, a no one till something, a voice from my being within me came calling
my real self by her made, my real name by her named, my immodest mother, drunk woman queen,
my goddess, my other, Queen Mab, for thee I am called, Queen of the underworld and of the poets,
Queen of red mead, which I often find flowing, Queen of the walls, my true self still growing
in your image, though not the same, for I am still me and thou art still thee, though Mab,
Queen Mab is my name.
This poem arose as I drove home one evening after quite a busy day at work as a GP,
and it sort of expresses a sadness that I felt that general practice is changing,
as well as a sadness that day, and it's called energy for general practice.
My Johan Wedimaru Hedu, Johan died today, his wife, a widow now, sobs on my shoulder.
As I drive home, snow-tipped Welsh hills glow pink and the sun slips away.
This land is full of ghosts and the multitudinous dead, whom we have loved and tended,
come to their gates to greet me as I pass by.
There once was an angel who fell asleep, so deep asleep inside of me.
I searched and I searched around and about, what seemed like forever and a day,
when along came a true love who had the key that fitted right there inside of me.
I opened my eyes, I opened my heart, and I wondered and wondered, where can I start?
I have so many a tune to sing, so fair a melody to me.
So fair a melody to make a thring. Oh, where did you come from, my little thing?
I think I remember. Child of my body that lights the spring, the well of knowledge,
the fountain pours forth, my being soars. The angel of music lies asleep no more.